Angular audio (#54)
auth0-blog/guest-writer: articles/2019-04-24-title.markdown

```bash
npm install --save moment
```

> Note: RxJS comes along with Angular

## Developing Audio Player UI using Angular Material

In this section, you will design the UI of the application. In the end, your application will look like this:

![Image of Application](https://i.imgur.com/JcFJdoW.png)

Since you are going to use Angular Material Components, you need to import them inside your root `NgModules`. In order to do so, you are going to create a feature module named `MaterialModule` in the `material.module.ts` file under `./src/app` directory and add the following content:

```ts
import { NgModule } from '@angular/core';
import {
    MatButtonModule,
    MatListModule,
    MatSliderModule,
    MatIconModule,
    MatToolbarModule,
    MatCardModule
} from '@angular/material';

const modules = [
    MatButtonModule,
    MatListModule,
    MatSliderModule,
    MatIconModule,
    MatToolbarModule,
    MatCardModule
];

@NgModule({
    imports: modules,
    exports: modules
})
export class MaterialModule {}
```
> You have to add `MaterialModule` to the root `NgModule` to make it work.

Then, you are going to create the `app-player` component with @angular/cli:

```bash

> ng generate component pages/player --module app

Author: I agree with Sam here. That's one the reason why I opted to put npx commands in comments.

      <mat-toolbar color="primary">
        <mat-toolbar-row>
           {{ state?.readableCurrentTime }}
           <mat-slider class="time-slider" min="0" [max]="state?.duration" step="1" [value]="state?.currentTime" (input)="onSliderChangeEnd($event)" [disabled]="state?.error || currentFile.index === undefined"></mat-slider>
           {{ state?.readableDuration }}
        </mat-toolbar-row>

        <mat-toolbar-row class="media-action-bar">
          <button mat-button [disabled]="isFirstPlaying()" (click)="previous()">
            <mat-icon mat-list-icon>skip_previous</mat-icon>
          </button>

          <button mat-button (click)="play()" [disabled]="state?.error" *ngIf="!state?.playing">
            <mat-icon mat-list-icon>play_circle_filled</mat-icon>
          </button>

          <button mat-button (click)="pause()" *ngIf="state?.playing">
            <mat-icon mat-list-icon>pause</mat-icon>
          </button>

          <button  mat-button [disabled]="isLastPlaying()" (click)="next()">
            <mat-icon mat-list-icon>skip_next</mat-icon>
          </button>
        </mat-toolbar-row>
      </mat-toolbar>
    </div>
</div>

{% endhighlight %}

> ### Styling Audio Player

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Styling the Audio Player

```

Just to improve the look and feel of your app, you will do some minor styling in the `player.component.scss` file (you can find it under `./src/pages/player/`), as shown below:

```scss
.container {
  .main-toolbar {
    .spacer {
      flex: 1 1 auto;
    }
    .toolbar-btn {
      font-size: 16px;
      margin-right:5px;
      cursor: pointer;
    }
  }

  .content {
    .logo {
      margin: 2.5rem;
      text-align: center;
      font-size:24px;
      color: #3f51b5;
      .mat-icon{
        height:160px !important;
        width:160px !important;
        font-size:160px !important;
      }
    }
  }

  .media-footer {
    position: absolute;
    bottom:0;
    width:100%;
    .time-slider {
      width: 100% !important;
      margin-left:20px;
      margin-right:20px;
    }
    .media-action-bar {
      width: 100%;
      padding:2.5rem;
      justify-content: center;
      .mat-icon{
        height:48px !important;
        width:48px !important;
        font-size:48px !important;
      }
    }
  }
}
```

> In order to make sure your our application compiles, open `player.component.ts` and update it with the dummy content as following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To ensure that your application compiles, open `player.component.ts` and update it with the following content which includes mock data:
```

```ts
// ... import statements and @Component declaration ...
export class PlayerComponent {
  files: Array<any> = [
    { name: 'First Song', artist: 'Inder' },
    { name: 'Second Song', artist: 'You' }
  ];
  state;
  currentFile: any = {};

  isFirstPlaying() {
    return false;
  }
  isLastPlaying() {
    return true;
  }
}
```

> ### Updating Routing

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Updating the Router

```

> In order to see the UI, you need to configure the routing inside the `app-routing.module.ts` file to add `PlayerComponent`, as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to see the UI, you need to configure the router inside the `app-routing.module.ts` file to use `PlayerComponent` as a route like so:
```

```ts
import { NgModule } from '@angular/core';
import { RouterModule, Routes } from '@angular/router';
import { PlayerComponent } from './pages/player/player.component';

const routes: Routes = [
    { path: '', component: PlayerComponent },
    { path: '**', redirectTo: '' }
];

@NgModule({
    imports: [
      RouterModule.forRoot(routes)
    ],
    exports: [ RouterModule],
})
export class AppRoutingModule {}
```

You also have to update `app.component.html` with the following content:

{% highlight html %}

> <router-outlet></router-outlet>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{% raw %}
<router-outlet></router-outlet>
{% endraw %}
```

{% endhighlight %}

> ## Creating a Service to Manage the Playback

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Creating a Service to Manage the Audio Playback
```

After creating the Audio Player UI, you can start working on the playback feature.

### Creating Playback Observable

> The Observable that you are going to create is the central piece of your application. RxJS comes with a helper function named `create` to help you create custom observables. It takes `subscribe` function as an input.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Observable that you are going to create is the central piece of your application. RxJS comes with a helper function named `create` to help you create custom observables. It takes a `subscribe` function as an input.
```

```ts
Observable.create(subscribe): Observable<any>;
```

> This `subscribe` function takes an `observer` object and returns a function. Observer objects provide three methods: `next`, `error`, and `complete`.

Reviewer: > This `subscribe` function takes an `observer` object and returns a function.

What does the function that is returned do?

1. To emit a value, you can call the `observer.next` method with the desired value.

> 2. In case of an error, you can use the `observer.error` function to throw the error and make the observable stop.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. In case of an error, you can use the `observer.error` function to throw the error and make the observable stop.
```

> 3. If you no longer need the observer and there are no more values to emit, you can call the `observer.complete` method.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. If you no longer need the observer and there are no more values to emit, you can call the `observer.complete` method.
```

> Also, calling `Observable.create` will return an `Observable` to which you can subscribe via the `subscribe` method. This method returns a function that you can call when you want to unsubscribe from the observable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Also, calling `Observable.create` will return an `Observable` to which you can subscribe via the `subscribe` method, which returns a function that you can call when you want to unsubscribe from the observable.
```

> > Don't be confused with `Observable.create(subscribe)` and `Observable.subscribe()`. Former `subscribe` function is an input to `Observable.create`, which is sort of like blueprint of an observable, and latter is the one which invokes the execution of an observable.

Reviewer: This note isn't very clear to me 🤔 I would suggest being more direct about `Observable.create(subscribe)` vs `Observable.subscribe()`.

What do you think @brunokrebs ?

> In your audio player app, you are going to create an observable to get notifications about media events like `playing`, `pause`, `timeupdate`, and so on. So, basically, you will listen to the media event's of `Audio()` inside the observable and then notify the rest of the app via the `observer.next` method.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In your audio player app, you are going to create an observable to get notifications about media events like `playing`, `pause`, `timeupdate`, and so on. So, basically, you will listen to the media events of `Audio` inside the observable and then notify the rest of the app via the `observer.next` method.
```

> Now that you understand why do you need an observable, you can start by creating service in your Angular app:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that you understand why you need an observable, you can start by creating a service using it in your Angular app:
```

```bash

> ng generate service services/audio

Reviewer: If using `npx`:

`npx @angular/cli generate service services/audio`

  files: Array<any> = [
    { name: 'First Song', artist: 'Inder' },
    { name: 'Second Song', artist: 'You' }
  ];
  state;
  currentFile: any = {};

  isFirstPlaying() {
    return false;
  }
  isLastPlaying() {
    return true;
  }
}
```

### Updating the Router

In order to see the UI, you need to configure the router inside the `app-routing.module.ts` file to use `PlayerComponent` as a route like so:

```ts
import { NgModule } from '@angular/core';
import { RouterModule, Routes } from '@angular/router';
import { PlayerComponent } from './pages/player/player.component';

const routes: Routes = [
    { path: '', component: PlayerComponent },
    { path: '**', redirectTo: '' }
];

@NgModule({
    imports: [
      RouterModule.forRoot(routes)
    ],
    exports: [ RouterModule],
})
export class AppRoutingModule {}
```

You also have to update `app.component.html` with the following content:

{% highlight html %}
{% raw %}
<router-outlet></router-outlet>
{% endraw %}
{% endhighlight %}

## Creating a Service to Manage the Audio Playback

After creating the Audio Player UI, you can start working on the playback feature.

### Creating Playback Observable

> The Observable that you are going to create is the central piece of your application. RxJS comes with a helper function named `create` to help you create custom observables. It takes a `subscribe` function as an input.

Reviewer 2: `Observable.create` is actually now deprecated in favor of `new Observable()` :( They work exactly the same way though, so you'll just need to modify your examples. You *could* technically leave this with `create`, but it will mean that whenever they remove it (I think v7) your article will become immediately outdated.

      case 'canplay':
        this.state.duration = this.audioObj.duration;
        this.state.readableDuration = this.formatTime(this.state.duration);
        this.state.canplay = true;
        break;
      case 'playing':
        this.state.playing = true;
        break;
      case 'pause':
        this.state.playing = false;
        break;
      case 'timeupdate':
        this.state.currentTime = this.audioObj.currentTime;
        this.state.readableCurrentTime = this.formatTime(this.state.currentTime);
        break;
      case 'error':
        this.resetState();
        this.state.error = true;
        break;
    }
    this.stateChange.next(this.state);
  }
}
```

### Resetting the state

When you need to reset the state. You can do it using `resetState` method as following:

```ts
private resetState() {
  this.state = {
    playing: false,
    readableCurrentTime: '',
    readableDuration: '',
    duration: undefined,
    currentTime: undefined,
    canplay: false,
    error: false
  };
}
```

### Reading the state

You are going to need a method to share the `stateChange` BehaviorSubject to the rest of the application as follows:

```ts
export class AudioService {

>   getState(): BehaviorSubject<any> {

Author: Yeah. You are right here. It's a leak. This method should expose just an Observable instead. Fixing it. Thanks a lot @samjulien

    return this.stateChange;
  }
}
```

### Updating streamObservable

> Finally, you need to adapt the `streamObservable` method by firing `updateStateEvent` method inside it and also resetting the state during unsubscription. Updated streamObservable looks like follows:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Finally, you need to adapt the `streamObservable` method by firing `updateStateEvent` method inside it and also resetting the state during unsubscription. The updated streamObservable looks like this:
```

## Reading the Music Files

After managing the state of the application, you will need to create a service to get a list of files. To do so, you can create a cloud service using Angular:

```bash
ng generate service services/cloud
# if using npx, use the following command instead
# npx @angular/cli generate service services/cloud
```

This command will generate service in a file called `cloud.service.ts` under `./src/services`. Now, replace the contents of this file with:

```ts
import { Injectable } from '@angular/core';
import { of } from 'rxjs';

@Injectable({
  providedIn: 'root'
})
export class CloudService {
  files: any = [
// tslint:disable-next-line: max-line-length
    { url: 'https://ia801504.us.archive.org/3/items/EdSheeranPerfectOfficialMusicVideoListenVid.com/Ed_Sheeran_-_Perfect_Official_Music_Video%5BListenVid.com%5D.mp3', 
      name: 'Perfect',
      artist: ' Ed Sheeran'
    },
    {
// tslint:disable-next-line: max-line-length
      url: 'https://ia801609.us.archive.org/16/items/nusratcollection_20170414_0953/Man%20Atkiya%20Beparwah%20De%20Naal%20Nusrat%20Fateh%20Ali%20Khan.mp3',
      name: 'Man Atkeya Beparwah',

>       artist: 'Nusrat Fateh Ali Khan'

Reviewer 2: Nusrat! I'm a big Jeff Buckley fan and Nusrat Fateh Ali Khan was one of his biggest influences.

Author: I have been listening to Nusrat since I was 6 years old. We have the same mother tongue and Nusrat is all time favorite in my region of India.

    },
    { url: 'https://ia801503.us.archive.org/15/items/TheBeatlesPennyLane_201805/The%20Beatles%20-%20Penny%20Lane.mp3',
      name: 'Penny Lane',
      artist: 'The Beatles'
    }
  ];

  getFiles() {
   return of(this.files);
  }
}
```
The `getFiles` method above basically mocks an HTTP request by returning an `Observable` with a hardcoded `files` object.

## Stitching all together

> So far you have written code for services and created the UI of the application. Now you will stitch both of them together. So you will be implementing `PlayerComponent`. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
So far you have written code for services and created the UI of the application. Now you will stitch both of them together by be implementing `PlayerComponent`. 
```

### The Audio Player UI Controller

To help you control your audio player user interface, you will implement a controller responsible for the following things:

* fetching all the media files

> * adding playback feature in the app

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* adding the playback feature in the app
```

You will implement the following methods:

> * `constructor`: this method will create an instance of Player Component, then it will grab all the media files from cloud service and finally it will start listening to `stateChange` Subject from `AudioService`.

Reviewer 2: For all of these in this list, change to a present tense verb and delete the period.

```suggestion
* `constructor`: creates an instance of Player Component, then it will grab all the media files from the cloud service and finally it will start listening to `stateChange` Subject from `AudioService`
```

* `playStream`: this method will subscribe to AudioService.playStream to start playing an audio file for the first time.
* `play`: this method will restart the audio playback.
* `pause`: this method will pause the audio playback.
* `stop`: this method will stop the audio playback.
* `openFile`: this method will grab the audio file, set it as the current file and then play it using the `playStream` method.
* `next`: this method will play the next track from the audio playlist.
* `previous`: this method will play the previous track from the audio playlist.
* `isFirstPlaying`: this method will check if the first track is playing or not.
* `isLastPlaying`: this method will check if the last track is playing or not.
* `onSliderChangeEnd`: this method will fire when the user use slider and `seekTo` that part of the music.

First, you will need to import required files and create `files`, `state`, and `currentFile` properties as shown:

> ```ts

Reviewer 2: This section is a great example of why we include a comment with the path in each code snippet. It's been a few paragraphs since the user has touched the PlayerComponent since they've been in the audio and cloud services, so they may not remember where it is.

Author: done!

import { Component } from '@angular/core';
import { AudioService } from '../../services/audio.service';
import { CloudService } from '../../services/cloud.service';
import { StreamState } from '../../interfaces/stream-state';

// ... @Component declaration ...

export class PlayerComponent {
  files: Array<any> = [];
  state: StreamState;
  currentFile: any = {};
}
```

#### `constructor`
The constructor will create an instance of `PlayerComponent` and fetch the media files and then assign them to `this.files` property. It will also subscribe to state changes and assign it to `this.state` property.

```ts
// ... import statements and @Component declaration ...
export class PlayerComponent {

>   constructor(private audioService: AudioService, cloudService: CloudService) {

Reviewer 2: `cloudService` should be marked as `public`.

    // get media files
    cloudService.getFiles().subscribe(files => {
      this.files = files;
    });

    // listen to stream state
    this.audioService.getState()
    .subscribe(state => {
      this.state = state;
    });
  }
}
```
#### `playStream` Method

> Then, the `playstream` method can fire the `playStream` method of your `AudioService`. This method on the service returns an observable that you will use to subscribe and start listening to media events like `canplay`, `playing`, etc. However, you don't really need those values or events. Because you can read them using the `stateChange` subject. This method is used to start observable and audio playback.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Then, the `playstream` method can fire the `playStream` method of your `AudioService`. This method on the service returns an observable that you will use to subscribe and start listening to media events like `canplay`, `playing`, etc. However, you don't really need those values or events because you can read them using the `stateChange` subject. This method is used to start observable and audio playback.
```

  // ...constructor and other methods ...
  previous() {
    const index = this.currentFile.index - 1;
    const file = this.files[index];
    this.openFile(file, index);
  }
}
```

#### The `isFirstPlaying` and `isLastPlaying` Methods

Then, you will need two helper methods to check if the music being played is the first or the last track from the playlist. You use these methods to disable and enable the UI buttons:

```ts
// ... import statements and @Component declaration ...
export class PlayerComponent {
  // ...constructor and other methods ...
  isFirstPlaying() {
    return this.currentFile.index === 0;
  }

  isLastPlaying() {
    return this.currentFile.index === this.files.length - 1;
  }
}
```

#### The `onSliderChangeEnd` Methods

Also, you will want to enable your users to do seek operations. So, when the seek operation ends, Angular will fire the `onSliderChangeEnd` method and, in it, you can fetch the time selected by the user and seekTo that time:

```ts
// ... import statements and @Component declaration ...
export class PlayerComponent {
  // ...constructor and other methods ...
  onSliderChangeEnd(change) {
    this.audioService.seekTo(change.value);
  }
}
```

> ### Updating `AppModule`

Reviewer 2: Hmm, you shouldn't need this section if you're using the correct CLI commands and the `providedIn: root` option. I didn't need to manually update my app module at all.

The final steps, before being able to use your app for the first time, start with importing all the required libraries inside the `app.module.ts` file:

```ts
import { BrowserModule } from '@angular/platform-browser';
import { NgModule } from '@angular/core';
import { BrowserAnimationsModule } from '@angular/platform-browser/animations';

// components
import { AppComponent } from './app.component';
import { PlayerComponent } from './pages/player/player.component';

// modules
import { MaterialModule } from './material.module';
import { AppRoutingModule } from './app-routing.module';

// all services
import { AudioService } from './services/audio.service';
import { CloudService} from './services/cloud.service';

@NgModule({
  declarations: [
    AppComponent,
    PlayerComponent,
  ],
  imports: [
    BrowserModule,
    BrowserAnimationsModule,
    MaterialModule,
    AppRoutingModule
  ],
  providers: [
    AudioService,
    CloudService,
  ],
  entryComponents: [
    PlayerComponent,
  ],
  bootstrap: [AppComponent]
})
export class AppModule { }

```
### Building and Running the Audio Player
After implementing the application, you can run it via @angular/cli:

```

> ng serve

Reviewer 2: You've been using `npm start` throughout the article. I'd either pick one or the other and use it the whole time, just to prevent confusion.

```

> Above command will spin up a web server at `http://localhost:4200/`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The above command will spin up a web server at `http://localhost:4200/`.
```

Reviewer 2: The app is working great, but there's an error with Penny Lane. I wonder if that track is no longer available?

## Authentication with Auth0
To develop a secure app, you are going to rely on Auth0 to handle the authentication of your users. As such, you can [sign up for a free Auth0 account here](https://auth0.com/signup). Then, you will need to set up an Auth0 Application to represent your mobile app.

### Installing Dependencies
To secure your Angular app with Auth0, you will have to install `auth0-js` via npm:

```bash
npm install --save auth0-js
```

### Set Up an Auth0 Application
1.  Go to your [Auth0 Dashboard](https://manage.auth0.com/#/) and click the "[create a new application](https://manage.auth0.com/#/applications/create)" button.
2.  Name your new app (e.g. "Angular Audio Player"), select "Single Page Application" as its type, and click the "Create" button.

> 3.  In the Settings tab of your new Auth0 app, add `http://localhost:4200/` in the Allowed Callback URLs.

Reviewer 2: No trailing slash:

```suggestion
3.  In the Settings tab of your new Auth0 app, add `http://localhost:4200` in the Allowed Callback URLs.
```

> 4.  Add `http://localhost:4200/` to the Allowed Logout URLs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. Add `http://localhost:4200` to both the Allowed Web Origins and Allowed Logout URLs. 
```

5.  Click the "Save Changes" button.

### Configuring Auth0

Now you are going to add Auth0 Configuration to the `environment.ts` file under `src/environment` directory:

```ts
export const environment = {
  production: false,
  auth0: {
    clientID: '[YOUR_AUTH0_CLIENT_ID]',
    domain: '[YOUR_AUTH0_DOMAIN]',

>     redirectUri: '[REDIRECT_URI]',

Reviewer 2: You should just provide the redirect URI and log out URL here: 

```ts
redirectUri: 'http://localhost:4200',
logoutUrl: 'http://localhost:4200'
```

    logoutUrl: '[LOGOUT_URL]'
  }
};
```

> This list explains what these values mean:

Reviewer 2: Same feedback as before, make these sentence fragments without periods.

Author: done

* `clientID`: They are the *Client Id* property available in your Auth0 Application.

> * `domain`: It's your Auth0 Domain.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `domain`: your Auth0 Domain (e.g.`your-domain.auth0.com`
```

* `redirectUri`: It's the URL where the user will be redirected after login. You can use the same URL as your callback URL here.
* `logoutUrl`: It's your URL that you want your user to direct when he/she log out.

### Auth Service

> After creating your Auth0 account and defining the auth0 config in environment file, you will need to define an authentication service in your Angular app. To do so, you will use `@angular/cli`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After creating your Auth0 account and defining the Auth0 config in the environment file, you will need to define an authentication service in your Angular app. To do so, you will use `@angular/cli`:
```

```bash
ng generate service services/auth
# if using npx, use the following command instead
# npx @angular/cli service services/auth
```

This command will generate service in a file called `auth.service.ts` under `./src/services`. Now, replace the contents of this file with:

```ts
import { Injectable } from '@angular/core';
import * as auth0 from 'auth0-js';
import { environment } from '../../environments/environment';
import { Observable, BehaviorSubject, bindNodeCallback, of } from 'rxjs';
import { Router } from '@angular/router';

> @Injectable({

Reviewer 2: Need a new line here between the imports and the decorator.

Author: done

  providedIn: 'root'
})
export class AuthService {

  auth0 = new auth0.WebAuth({
    clientID: environment.auth0.clientID,
    domain: environment.auth0.domain,
    responseType: 'token id_token',
    redirectUri: environment.auth0.redirectUri,
    scope: 'openid profile email'
  });

  // Track whether or not to renew token

>   private _authFlag = 'isLoggedIn';

Reviewer 2: Angular typically doesn't prefix private things with underscores, so tslint will show warnings on these lines. Not a huge deal, just something to be aware of.

Author: let's just leave this bit here as it is.

Author: Thanks for pointing this out.

    return JSON.parse(localStorage.getItem(this._authFlag));
  }

  renewAuth() {
    if (this.authenticated) {
      this.checkSession$({}).subscribe({
        next: authResult => this._setAuth(authResult),
        error: err => {
          localStorage.removeItem(this._authFlag);
          localStorage.removeItem(this._userProfileFlag);
          this.router.navigate([this.onAuthFailureUrl]);
        }
      });
    }
  }

  logout = () => {
    // Set authentication status flag in local storage to false
    localStorage.setItem(this._authFlag, JSON.stringify(false));
    // remove the userProfile data
    localStorage.removeItem(this._userProfileFlag);

    // This does a refresh and redirects back to the homepage
    // Make sure you have the logout URL in your Auth0
    // Dashboard Application settings in Allowed Logout URLs
    this.auth0.logout({
      returnTo: this.logoutUrl,
      clientID: environment.auth0.clientID
    });
  };

  // Utility functions

  private _handleError = err => {
    if (err.error_description) {
      console.error(`Error: ${err.error_description}`);
    } else {
      console.error(`Error: ${JSON.stringify(err)}`);
    }
  };
}
```

> To better understand how the code above works, take a look into the following explanation:

Reviewer 2: I think you need a return/new line here. This doesn't show up as a list. You can also cut out the beginning words like "these are" and remove the periods as with the other lists.

Author: fixed

* `renewAuth()`: this method checks if the user is authenticated or not and then check session if it's valid or not and set's auth state respectively.
* `logout()`: it logs out the user by removing auth state and user data from localstorage. It also calls the `auth0.logout` method which redirects the user to given `logoutUrl`.

> You have to add AuthService to the `providers` array of `NgModule`.

### Auth Guard

Now that you have created AuthService. You can create `AuthGuard`, which allows you to secure routes of the application. Use Angular Cli to generate the guard as follows:

```bash
ng generate guard guards/auth
# if using npx, use the following command instead
# npx @angular/cli guard guards/auth
```
This command will generate the `auth.guard.ts` file under `/src/app/guards` directory. Update the content of the file with the following:

```ts
import { Injectable } from '@angular/core';
import {
  CanActivate,
  ActivatedRouteSnapshot,
  RouterStateSnapshot
} from '@angular/router';
import { Observable } from 'rxjs';
import { AuthService } from '../services/auth.service';
import { Router } from '@angular/router';

> @Injectable()

Reviewer 2: Missing `providedIn: 'root'`

export class AuthGuard implements CanActivate {
  constructor(private authService: AuthService, private router: Router) {}

  canActivate(
    next: ActivatedRouteSnapshot,
    state: RouterStateSnapshot
  ): Observable<boolean> | Promise<boolean> | boolean {
    if (this.authService.authenticated) {
      return true;
    } else {
      this.router.navigate(['/']);
      return false;
    }
  }
}

```

It basically checks if the user is logged in or not. If the user is logged in, it allows the user to access the given route otherwise redirect the user to `/` route.

> > You have to add AuthGuard to the `providers` array of `NgModule`.

Reviewer 2: Using `providedIn` prevents this.

> ### Updating UI

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Updating the UI
```

> Now that you have created the AuthService and AuthGuard. You can use it to add Authentication to the player.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now that you have created the `AuthService` and `AuthGuard`, you can use them to add authentication to the player.
```

  templateUrl: './profile.component.html',
  styleUrls: ['./profile.component.scss']
})
export class ProfileComponent implements OnInit {
  userProfile;
  constructor(authService: AuthService) {
    authService.userProfile$.subscribe(profile => {
      this.userProfile = profile;
    });
  }

  ngOnInit() {
  }
}
```

Now open the `profile.component.html` add the following content:

{% highlight html %}
{% raw %}
<div class="container">
    <mat-toolbar color="primary" class="main-toolbar">
      <mat-icon class="back-btn" routerLink="/">arrow_back</mat-icon>
      <span>Audio Player - Profile</span>
      <span class="spacer"></span>
    </mat-toolbar>

    <mat-card class="profile-card">
        <img mat-card-image [src]="userProfile?.picture">
        <mat-card-content>
            <mat-card-title>{{ userProfile?.name }}</mat-card-title>
        </mat-card-content>
      </mat-card>
</div>
{% endraw %}
{% endhighlight %}

Finally, open the `profile.component.scss` and add the following content:

```scss
.back-btn {
    margin-right:5px;
    cursor: pointer;
}

.profile-card {
    margin:20px;
    max-width: 400px;
}
```

User can access this component at `/profile` URL.

> > You have to add this route to `router` config in the `app-routing.module.ts` file. You also have to add `ProfileComponent` to the `declaration` and `entryComponent` arrays of `NgModule`

Reviewer 2: You should show the code for these.

Reviewer 2: FYI your CLI command uses the `module` flag so it will already be added to `declarations`.

  <span>Audio Player</span>
  <span class="spacer"></span>
  <span class="toolbar-btn" *ngIf="!auth.authenticated" (click)="auth.login()">LOGIN </span>
  <span class="toolbar-btn" *ngIf="auth.authenticated" (click)="auth.logout()">LOGOUT</span>
  <span class="toolbar-btn" *ngIf="auth.authenticated" routerLink="/profile">PROFILE</span>
</mat-toolbar>
{% endraw %}
{% endhighlight %}

Along with Toolbar, you have to hide the playlist if user is not logged in. You can simply add `*ngIf="auth.authenticated"` to the playlist as follows:

{% highlight html %}
{% raw %}
<mat-list color="primary" *ngIf="auth.authenticated">
  <h3 mat-subheader>Songs</h3>
  <mat-list-item *ngFor="let file of files; let i = index" (click)="openFile(file, i)">
    <mat-icon color="primary" mat-list-icon>music_note</mat-icon>
    <h4 mat-line>{{ file.name }}</h4>
    <h5 mat-line>by {{ file.artist }}</h5>
    <mat-icon color="primary" *ngIf="currentFile.index === i && !state?.error">volume_up</mat-icon>
    <h6 *ngIf="currentFile.index === i && state?.error">ERROR</h6>
    <mat-divider></mat-divider>
  </mat-list-item>
</mat-list>
{% endraw %}
{% endhighlight %}

> > Don't forget to import and inject `AuthService` in the `PlayerComponent`.

Reviewer 2: You should show this more explicitly since you need to make the injected `AuthService` public and name it `auth` in order for it to work with your HTML.

### Updating AppComponent

Finally, you have to update the `app.component.ts` file to handle authentication as follows:

```ts
import { Component } from '@angular/core';
import { AuthService } from './services/auth.service';

@Component({
  selector: 'app-root',
  templateUrl: './app.component.html',
  styleUrls: ['./app.component.scss']
})
export class AppComponent {
  constructor(public auth: AuthService) {
    auth.renewAuth();
    auth.handleLoginCallback();
  }
}
```

#### Running

You can run the application using `@angular/cli`:

```bash
ng serve
```

## Conclusion and Next Steps

In this article, you created an audio player app with Angular. You used RxJS to develop audio playback features and state management. Besides that, you also used Auth0 to handle user authentication in your  app. With this, you have finished developing the application with static audio content.

> /** comment About Next part or further instructions here **/ 

Reviewer 2: Personally, I wouldn't worry about adding a "next part" right now. This is a very well done, very thorough article and can definitely stand on its own. If you decide to do a second part, we will modify the conclusion and link to it. Otherwise you are setting yourself up for a bunch of comments like "Where is the second part?" and a lot of pressure on yourself. 

I would add a "See you next time!" or something here and that's it.
